Q1. What is Azure Storage
It is cloud storage solution for modern data storage scenarios.
It works whether you want to store the data of any format like images, csv, text, audio, video, binary files.
You can access data stored in storage account in multiple ways like through https,
in programmatic manner through rest APIs or through powershell commands.


Q2. What are the benefits of Azure Storage
1.Durable and highly available.
2.Secure
3.Scalable
4.Managed
5. Accessible

Q3. What are the different Azure Storage data services
Azure Blobs: Object store for text and binary data. Includes support for big data analytics through Data Lake Storage Gen2 (ADLS).

Azure Files: Managed file shares for cloud or on-premises deployments.

Azure Queues: A messaging store for reliable messaging between application components.

Azure Tables: A NOSQL store for schemaless storage of structured data.

Azure Disks: Block-level storage volumes for Azure VMs.


Q4. What is Azure Blob storage
Blob storage is optimized for storing unstructured data. Blob storage few use case scenarios:
Serving images or documents directly to a browser.
Storing files for distributed access.
Streaming video and audio.
Writing to log files.
Storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving

Q5. What is Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.
Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2, Microsoft's enterprise big data analytics solution for the cloud.
It includes all the advantages of Blob storage.
Plus it offers hierarchical file system.

Q6. What is Azure Files?
File share service in the cloud.
It is accessible via industry standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol or Network File System (NFS) protocol
SMB Azure file shares are accessible from Windows, Linux, and macOS clients.
NFS Azure Files shares are accessible from Linux or macOS clients.

Q7. What are key benefits of Azure files
Shared access.
Fully managed.
Scripting and tooling.
Resiliency
Familiar programmability

Q8. What is Azure Queue Storage?
It is service for storing large numbers of messages.
A queue message can be up to 64 KB in size.
A queue may contain millions of messages, up to the total capacity limit of a storage account.
You access messages from anywhere via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS.

Q9. Does Azure Queue Storage guarantee ordering?
No.
Messages in Storage queues are typically first-in-first-out, but sometimes they can be out of order.


Q10. What is Azure Table storage?
Service that stores non-relational structured data (No-SQL data)
It is schemaless, fast and cost effective
It can store TBS of structured data.
Quickly querying data using a clustered index
